# DMA_Transform

Hydrogels are known for their non-Newtonian shear thinning properties at elevated temperatures. This effect is typically attributed to water evaporation from the porous matrix and can be observed during parallel plate dynamic rheology testing. This shear thinning behavior at higher temperatures led to a deeper investigation into the effects of strain rate around the inflection point where shear thinning is most noticeable.  The aim of this study was to establish a correlation between dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA) data in the frequency domain and time-domain data across different strain rates to isolate this behavior of the material and predict a set of parameters to produce an optimal strain rate for this type of material. By employing time-temperature superposition, the DMA results were transformed into time-domain relaxation functions, allowing for the prediction of a strain rate-dependent storage moduli at various temperatures. This transformation technique was validated through experimental results with composite viscoelastic hydrogel. Software was developed for this work to convert the frequency domain data into time domain data plotting the master curve of the rheological data and providing potential strain rates correlating to the range of temperatures tested Furthermore, cross-correlation between frequency-domain and time-domain results for viscous fluids can significantly streamline the characterization of material behavior, which is influenced by loading frequency, strain rate, and temperature. This understanding is critical for applications where precise control of material properties is necessary, such as in biomedical engineering, precise flow management in extrusion based additive manufacturing, and other fields that utilize hydrogels and similar materials.

# How it Works

Run app.py in an integrated terminal and go to the URL in a web browser. Upload the data and shift factors or use the WLF equation and click submit. The code will then run the converted_script.py and display all the graphs on the website as well as populate the uploads folder with all graphs.
